# We want to create an easy backend UI with Directus as CMS and a blog with Next JS

## First : Let's create our Directus app

### 🚀 Part A: Create a new project with Directus 9
[https://docs.directus.io/getting-started/quickstart/]
#### Step 1 : `npx create-directus-project <my-project>`

#### Step 2 : Connect your database

Directus need to be connected to a database to be installed.
So, if you have one, just add your informations, if you don't have one and want just to start quickly your project, use SQLite as database.
You can choose random mail and password for a test project.

#### Step 3 : Login to app

Use the localhost url to access and login to your app.
Probably : [http://localhost:8055/admin]

### 🛠 Part B: Build your content
#### Step 1: Create collection types with the Content-Types Builder
- Follow the prompts and create a Collection.
- Collection is like a "table" for your database
- Choose every field you need for your table
- When you create a field; choose if you need to custom your field like "Required" or "Unique field" for example
- Finally, click **check** at the end of all options and wait for Directus to add your content

Create every Collection types you need for your application

#### Step 2: Use the collection types to create new entries
- Go to Collection on the left side of your navigation.
- Select your collection
- Click on **+** on the right side
- You are creating a new element (article for example)

You can set-up a relation filed wich is to make relation beetween your collections types.

#### Step 3: Set Roles & Permissions
We want to be able to get our data, so the next step is for handle our endpoints and our CRUD :
By default, all content entered into Directus is considered private. This means that no data will be returned by the API, unless requested by an authenticated user that has the correct permissions. In order to have the API return our items, we'll have to setup some permissions. Navigate to Settings Module > Roles & Permissions.

Directus ships with a special "Public" role that controls what data is returned to non-authenticated users. Select the public role, find your collection, and click the icon under the "eye" icon (read/view permission) to allow the public role to read the items in your collection.

#### Step 4: Use the API
Now that your project has some content in it, it's time to start using this content externally. Data can be accessed in a number of ways, including the REST API, GraphQL, the CLI, or even straight from the database. In this case, we'll use the /items/ REST API endpoint to retrieve the item we just created.

Using your browser, or an API tool like Postman (opens new window)or Paw (opens new window), open http://localhost:8055/items/articles (opens new window).

And there it is! The Article Item you just created is being served in beautiful JSON, ready to be used anywhere and everywhere!

Have fun !


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
## First : Let's create our Next JS app
doc here : [https://nextjs.org/docs/getting-started]

### 🚀 Part A: Create a new project with Next JS
- `npx create-next-app <my-project>`
- `cd my-blog-with-next`
- `yarn run dev`
- Visit ``http://localhost:3000`` to view your application.

### Part Optionnal: If you want to use Tailwind CSS
src : [https://tailwindcss.com/docs/guides/nextjs]

- `yarn add -D tailwindcss@latest postcss@latest autoprefixer@latest`

- `npx tailwindcss init -p`

in **tailwind.config.js :**
```javascript
module.exports = {
  mode: 'jit',
	purge : ['./pages/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}', './components/**/*.{js,ts,jsx,tsx}'],
  darkMode: false, // or 'media' or 'class'
  theme: {
    extend: {},
  },
  variants: {
    extend: {},
  },
  plugins: [],
}
```

in **./styles/globals.css :**
```javascript
@tailwind base ;
@tailwind components ;
@tailwind utilities ;
```

- in directory **./styles/** delete non using stuff

- in file **./pages /index.js**
Delete Head and Image and non using stuff

or copy/past this :
```javascript
import Head from 'next/head'

export default function Home() {
  return (
    <div>
      <Head>
        <title>Create Next App</title>
        <meta name="description" content="Generated by create next app" />
        <link rel="icon" href="/favicon.ico" />
      </Head>
      <h1>Lets build something cool</h1>
      
    </div>
  )
}
```